The incompatible-network state means that the database might still be accessible at the database level but you can't modify or reboot it.

Causes
The incompatible-network state of your DB instance could be a result of one of the following actions:

Modifying the DB instance class.

Modifying the DB instance to use Multi-AZ DB cluster deployment.

Replacing a host because of a maintenance event.

Launching a replacement DB instance.

Restoring from a snapshot backup.

Starting a DB instance that was stopped.

Resolution
Use start-db-instance command
To fix a database that is in an incompatible-network state, follow these instructions:

Open the https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/ and choose Databases from the navigation pane.

Choose the DB instance that is in the incompatible-network state and note the DB instance identifier, VPC ID, and subnet IDs from the Connectivity & Security tab.

Use the AWS CLI to run the start-db-instance command. Specify the --db-instance-identifier value.

Note
Running this command when your database is in incompatible mode might cause some downtime.

The start-db-instance command does not resolve this issue for RDS for SQL Server DB instances.

Your database status changes to Available if the command executes successfully.

If your database restarts, the DB instance might execute the last operation run on the instance before it was moved to incompatible-network state. This might move the instance back to the incompatible-network state.

If the start-db-instance command is unsuccessful or the instance moves back to incompatible-network state, open the Databases page in the RDS console and select the database. Navigate to the Logs & events section. The Recent events section displays further resolution steps to follow. The messages are classified as follows:

INTERNAL RESOURCE CHECK: There might be issues with your internal resources.

DNS CHECK: Check DNS resolution and hostnames for the VPC in the VPC console.

ENI CHECK: The elastic network interface (ENI) for your database might not exist.

GATEWAY CHECK: The internet gateway for your publicly available database is not attached to the VPC.

IP CHECK: There are no free IP addresses in your subnets.

SECURITY GROUP CHECK: There are no security groups associated with your database or the security groups are invalid.

SUBNET CHECK: There are no valid subnets in your DB subnet group or there are issues with your subnet.

VPC CHECK: The VPC associated with your database is invalid.

Perform point-in-time recovery
It is best practice to have a backup (snapshot or logical), in case your database enters incompatible-network state. See Introduction to backups. If you turned on automated backups, then temporarily stop any writes to the database and perform a point-in-time recovery.

Note
After an instance enters the incompatible-network state, the DB instance might not be accessible to perform a logical backup.

If you didn't turn on automated backups, create a new DB instance. Then migrate the data using AWS Database Migration Service (AWS DMS), or by using a backup and restore tool.

If this does not resolve the issue, contact Support for further assistance.

